add docs for the Navigation API (#21960)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/navigation_api/index.md

---
title: Navigation API
slug: Web/API/Navigation_API
page-type: web-api-overview
tags:
  - API
  - History
  - Landing
  - Navigate
  - Navigation
  - Navigation API
  - Overview
  - Scroll
  - Traversal
browser-compat:
  - api.Navigation
  - api.NavigateEvent
  - api.Window.navigation
---

> {{securecontext_header}}{{seecompattable}}{{DefaultAPISidebar("Navigation API")}}

Reviewer: I don't think there are any secure context restrictions on the feature.

Author: OK, removed in next commit.

It also contains two methods:

- {{domxref("NavigateEvent.intercept", "intercept()")}} allows you to control what happens when the navigation is initiated using a callback handler function, which should return a promise. For example, in the case of an SPA, it can be used to load relevant new content into the UI based on the path of the URL navigated to.
- {{domxref("NavigateEvent.scroll", "scroll()")}} allows you to manually initiate the browser's scroll behavior (e.g. to a fragment identifier in the URL), if it makes sense for your code, rather than waiting for the browser to handle it automatically.

Once a navigation is initiated, and your `intercept()` handler is called, a {{domxref("NavigationTransition")}} object instance is created (accessible via {{domxref("Navigation.transition")}}), which can be used used to track the process of the ongoing navigation.

> **Note:** In this context "transition" refers to the transition between one history entry and another. It isn't related to CSS transitions.

> > **Note:** You can also call {{domxref("Event.preventDefault", "preventDefault()")}} to stop the navigation entirely.

Reviewer: Note that canceling traversals is not yet implemented anywhere, although we've updated the explainer and spec since we have an implementation in progress. I'm not sure whether that's necessary to mention here, or elsewhere, or not at all.

Author: I've updated it to 

> **Note:** In future implementations you will be able to call {{domxref("Event.preventDefault", "preventDefault()")}} to stop the navigation entirely. This is specced out, but not currently implemented anywhere.

We can always update it when the implementation lands. Let me know.

Reviewer: Ah, sorry, it's a bit more subtle than that. Canceling ([most](https://github.com/wicg/navigation-api#appendix-types-of-navigations)) push/reload/replace navigations is possible today. It's the traverse navigations which are still a future feature.

You can see the diff, which represents what's not possible yet but will be soon, in https://github.com/WICG/navigation-api/commit/a430943e9e82c9288120f2201dabf588f126a273

Author: Ah! I see. I've updated it again, to 

> **Note:** You can also call {{domxref("Event.preventDefault", "preventDefault()")}} to stop the navigation entirely in most cases. This works today for most push, reload, and replace navigations; cancellation of traverse navigations is not yet implemented.

I'll keep it simple for now here, and then link to your explainer text when it is published.

> When the `initiate()` handler function's promise fulfills, the `Navigate` object's {{domxref("Navigation/navigatesuccess_event", "navigatesuccess")}} event fires, allowing you to run cleanup code after a successful navigation has completed. If it rejects, meaning the navigation has failed, {{domxref("Navigation/navigateerror_event", "navigateerror")}} fires instead, allowing you to gracefully handle the failure case. There is also a {{domxref("NavigationTransition.finished", "finished")}} property on the `NavigationTransition` object, which fullfills or rejects at the same time as the aforementioned events are fired, providing another path for handling the success and failure cases if it is needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `intercept()` handler function's promise fulfills, the `Navigate` object's {{domxref("Navigation/navigatesuccess_event", "navigatesuccess")}} event fires, allowing you to run cleanup code after a successful navigation has completed. If it rejects, meaning the navigation has failed, {{domxref("Navigation/navigateerror_event", "navigateerror")}} fires instead, allowing you to gracefully handle the failure case. There is also a {{domxref("NavigationTransition.finished", "finished")}} property on the `NavigationTransition` object, which fullfills or rejects at the same time as the aforementioned events are fired, providing another path for handling the success and failure cases if it is needed.
```

- `committed` fulfills, meaning that the visible URL has changed and a new NavigationHistoryEntry has been created.
- `finished` fulfills, meaning that all promises returned by your `intercept()` handler are fulfilled. This is equivalent to the {{domxref("NavigationTransition.finished")}} promise fulfilling, when the {{domxref("Navigation/navigatesuccess_event", "navigatesuccess")}} event fires, as mentioned earlier.
- either one of the above promises rejects, meaning that the navigation transition has failed for some reason.

### State

The Navigation API allows you to store state on each history entry. This is developer-defined information — it can be whatever you like. For example, you might want to store a `visitCount` property that records the number of times a view has been visited, or an object containing multiple properties.

To get a {{domxref("NavigationHistoryEntry")}}'s state, you call its {{domxref("NavigationHistoryEntry.getState", "getState()")}} method. It is initially `undefined`, but when state information is set on the entry, it will return the previously-set state information.

> Setting state is a bit more nuanced. You can't retrieve the state value and then update it directly — the copy stored on the entry will not change. Instead, you need to update it while performing a {{domxref("Navigation.navigate", "navigate()")}} or {{domxref("Navigation.reload", "reload()")}} — each one of these optionally takes an options object parameter, which includes a `state` property containing the new state to set on the history entry. When these navigations complete, the state change will be automatically applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting state is a bit more nuanced. You can't retrieve the state value and then update it directly — the copy stored on the entry will not change. Instead, you need to update it while performing a {{domxref("Navigation.navigate", "navigate()")}} or {{domxref("Navigation.reload", "reload()")}} — each one of these optionally takes an options object parameter, which includes a `state` property containing the new state to set on the history entry. When these navigations commit, the state change will be automatically applied.
```

In other cases a state change is not automatically applied, and you will need to do it manually once the navigation has completed. This is handled using {{domxref("Navigation.updateCurrentEntry", "updateCurrentEntry()")}}. The {{domxref("Navigation/currententrychange_event", "currententrychange")}} will fire when the current entry change is complete.

> (I'M REALLY NOT SURE IF THIS SECTION ON STATE IS ACCURATE. I AM KINDA GUESSING AT THE "AUTOMATIC BEHAVIOR" MENTIONED ABOVE, AND WHEN UPDATECURRENTENTRY() SHOULD BE USED. NONE OF THE MATERIAL I'VE FOUND SEEMS PARTICULARLY CLEAR ON THIS POINT.)

Reviewer: This part is indeed subtle. Some resources you may have seen:

- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/web-platform/navigation-api/#state (including the subsection)
- https://github.com/wicg/navigation-api#setting-the-current-entrys-state-without-navigating

Basically, we want the well-lit path to be that state updates are part of navigations/reloads. But there are some scenarios where you need to update state disconnected from any navigation, and that's what updateCurrentEntry() is for.

So I wouldn't talk about it as "automatic" vs. "manual", but more as "part of navigation/reload" vs. "independent from navigation/reload".

Author: Ah, brilliant, this makes more sense now. Thanks!

- {{domxref("NavigationCurrentEntryChangeEvent")}}
  - : Event object for the {{domxref("Navigation/currententrychange_event", "currententrychange")}} event, which fires when the currently navigated to history entry changes. Provides access to the navigation type, and the previous history entry that was navigated from.
- {{domxref("NavigateEvent")}}
  - : Event object for the {{domxref("Navigation/navigate_event", "navigate")}} event, which fires when [any type of navigation](https://github.com/WICG/navigation-api#appendix-types-of-navigations) is initiated. Provides access to information about that navigation, and most notably the {{domxref("NavigateEvent.intercept", "intercept()")}}, which allows you to control what happens when the navigation is initiated.

## Extensions to the `Window` interface

- {{domxref("Window.navigation")}}
  - : Returns the current `window`'s associated {{domxref("Navigation")}} object. Entry point for the API.

## Examples

> **Note:** Check out Domenic Denicola's [Navigation API live demo](https://gigantic-honored-octagon.glitch.me/).

### Handling a navigation using `intercept()`

```js
navigation.addEventListener('navigate', navigateEvent => {

>     // Exit early if this navigation shouldn't be intercepted, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Exit early if this navigation shouldn't be intercepted, 
```

The API is accessed via the {{domxref("Window.navigation")}} property, which returns a reference to a global {{domxref("Navigation")}} object. Each `window` object has its own corresponding `navigation` instance.

### Handling navigations

`navigation` has several associated events, the most notable being the {{domxref("Navigation/navigate_event", "navigate")}} event. This is fired when [any type of navigation](https://github.com/WICG/navigation-api#appendix-types-of-navigations) is initiated, meaning that you can control all page navigations from one central place, ideal for routing functionality in SPA frameworks. (This is not the case with the {{domxref("History API")}}, where it is sometimes hard to figure out responding to all navigations.) The `navigate` event has an event object of type {{domxref("NavigateEvent")}}, which contains detailed information including details around the navigation's destination, type, whether it contains `POST` form data or a download request, and more.

It also contains two methods:

> - {{domxref("NavigateEvent.intercept", "intercept()")}} allows you to control what happens when the navigation is initiated using a callback handler function, which should return a promise. For example, in the case of an SPA, it can be used to load relevant new content into the UI based on the path of the URL navigated to.

Author: Fixed in the next commit

- {{domxref("NavigateEvent.scroll", "scroll()")}} allows you to manually initiate the browser's scroll behavior (e.g. to a fragment identifier in the URL), if it makes sense for your code, rather than waiting for the browser to handle it automatically.

Once a navigation is initiated, and your `intercept()` handler is called, a {{domxref("NavigationTransition")}} object instance is created (accessible via {{domxref("Navigation.transition")}}), which can be used used to track the process of the ongoing navigation.

> **Note:** In this context "transition" refers to the transition between one history entry and another. It isn't related to CSS transitions.

> > **Note:** You can also call {{domxref("Event.preventDefault", "preventDefault()")}} to stop the navigation entirely in most cases. This works today for most push, reload, and replace navigations; cancellation of traverse navigations is not yet implemented.

Author: I've added a link to the `navigationType` page where those types are explained, and cleaned up the language a bit. I think I still need to say that traverse navigations are not yet cancellable. I'll have to update it when it lands.

When the `intercept()` handler function's promise fulfills, the `Navigate` object's {{domxref("Navigation/navigatesuccess_event", "navigatesuccess")}} event fires, allowing you to run cleanup code after a successful navigation has completed. If it rejects, meaning the navigation has failed, {{domxref("Navigation/navigateerror_event", "navigateerror")}} fires instead, allowing you to gracefully handle the failure case. There is also a {{domxref("NavigationTransition.finished", "finished")}} property on the `NavigationTransition` object, which fullfills or rejects at the same time as the aforementioned events are fired, providing another path for handling the success and failure cases if it is needed.

> **Note:** Previous to the Navigation API being available, to do something similar you'd have to listen for all click events on links, run `e.preventDefault()`, perform the appropriate {{domxref("History.pushState()")}} call, then set up the page view based on the new URL. And this wouldn't handle all navigations — only user-initiated link clicks.

### Programmatically updating and traversing the navigation history

> As the user navigates through your application, each new location navigated to results in the creation of a navigation history entry. Each history entry is represented by a distinct {{domxref("NavigationHistoryEntry")}} object instance. These contain several useful properties such as the entry's key, URL, and state information. You can return the entry that the user is currently navigated to right now using {{domxref("Navigation.currentEntry","currentEntry")}}, and an array of all existing history entries using {{domxref("Navigation.entries", "entries()")}}. Each `NavigationHistoryEntry` object has a {{domxref("NavigationHistoryEntry/dispose_event", "dispose")}} event, which fires when the entry is no longer part of the browser history (e.g. navigate back three times, then navigate forwards to somewhere else. Those three history entries will be disposed).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the user navigates through your application, each new location navigated to results in the creation of a navigation history entry. Each history entry is represented by a distinct {{domxref("NavigationHistoryEntry")}} object instance. These contain several properties such as the entry's key, URL, and state information. You can get the entry that the user is currently on right now using {{domxref("Navigation.currentEntry")}}, and an array of all existing history entries using {{domxref("Navigation.entries()")}}. Each `NavigationHistoryEntry` object has a {{domxref("NavigationHistoryEntry/dispose_event", "dispose")}} event, which fires when the entry is no longer part of the browser history. For example, if the user navigates back three times, then navigates forward to somewhere else, those three history entries will be disposed of).
```

I think it is worth including the interface name in the links, hence `Navigation.currentEntry` rather than just `currentEntry`.

I wasn't at all clear on what "key" means here, but maybe not worth going into that now.

> > **Note:** The Navigation API only exposes history entries created directly by the application (i.e. not {{htmlelement("iframe")}} navigations or cross-origin navigations), providing an accurate list of all previous history entries just for your app. This makes traversing the history a much less fragile proposition than the older {{domxref("History API")}}.

Reviewer 2: I don't know what "created directly by the application" means. Does it include (e.g.) links within the same origin? They don't seem to be "created directly by the application" but are also not cross-origin. And I'm not sure either tbh what "iframe navigations" are and how they are not covered by cross-origin navigations. Maybe I am just being ignorant here.

Reviewer 2: Oh, and `{{domxref("History API")}}` gives us code formatting which we should only have for identifiers. So either a normal Markdown link, or pass the extra runes to domxref to stop code formatting.

Author: This is a difficult one ; I've tried rewriting it to :

> The Navigation API only exposes history entries created directly by the application's top-level context (e.g. not navigations inside embedded {{htmlelement("iframe")}}s), providing an accurate list of all previous history entries just for your app. This makes traversing the history a much less fragile proposition than the older {{domxref("History API")}}.

I deleted the bit about cross-origin, because I'm really not sure about it, but the iframes bit makes the point well enough, I feel.

Reviewer: The cross-origin bit is kind of important.

Example:

- Navigate to `https://a.example.com/`, then `https://a.example.com/1`.
- Then navigate to `https://b.example.com/`, `https://b.example.com/1` in the same tab.
- `navigation.entries().length === 2`, because we only look at the same-origin entries on `b.example.com`. We don't look at the cross-origin ones on `a.example.com`.
- Similarly, if you call `navigation.back()` once to get to `https://b.example.com/`, then `navigation.canGoBack` is false, since there's no same-origin entry backwards.

In contrast, with the old history API, cross-origin entries do appear. E.g. `history.length === 4`, and `history.back()` works even when you're on the `https://b.example.com/` entry.

Author: Thanks for the explanation @domenic ; added back in.

Reviewer 2: So, sorry again if I'm being ignorant, but: is it correct then to say that it includes only entries that are same-domain with the current entry?

So e.g.

- I start a new tab on developer.mozilla.org -> 1 entry
- I navigate to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Cascade -> 2 entries
- I navigate to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Selectors -> 3 entries
- I navigate to https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/products/mdn-plus -> 1 entry (the support.mozilla.org one)
- I navigate to https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/contribute -> 2 entries (the support.mozilla.org ones)
- I go back twice, to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Selectors -> 3 entries (the developer.mozilla.org ones)

That's what I see. So "created directly by the application's top-level context" reads weirdly to me. I might think: in the cases above "the application" didn't "directly create" the navigation, the user did, by clicking a link. In particular I might think "created directly by the application" means "created as a result of a `navigate()` call".

So is it correct to say just "The Navigation API only exposes history entries for the top-level browsing context and that have the same origin as the current page, providing an accurate list of all previous history entries just for your app. This makes traversing the history a much less fragile proposition than the older {{domxref("History API")}}." ?

Reviewer 2: > And when you say "So either a normal Markdown link, or pass the extra runes to domxref to stop code formatting.", what do you mean by that? I never came across a way to do that in domxref when I was at Mozilla, and I was wondering about it just the other day ;-)

See: https://github.com/mdn/yari/blob/43d4672746860ed27d5d504eafd00ae377da0434/kumascript/macros/DOMxRef.ejs#L13-L14

So you need something like `{{domxref(name, linkText, "", "joy division oven gloves")}}`

Reviewer: > is it correct then to say that it includes only entries that are same-domain with the current entry?

Same [origin](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-url-origin); not same-[domain](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-domain). But basically yes.

> The Navigation API only exposes history entries for the top-level browsing context

This is not correct. It exposes history entries for the current frame. It doesn't matter whether that frame is top level or not.

Note that this is different than the classic history API. You can see this given the following scenario: https://domenic.github.io/jake-diagram-generator/#IWN1cnJlbnQgPSAxCnRvcAogIDAtMjogL3QtYSB8IGRvYzEKICAzOiAvdC1hI2ZvbyB8IGRvYzEKICA0OiAvdC1iCmZyYW1lc1swXQogIDA6IC9pLTAtYQogIDEtMzogL2ktMC1iCmZyYW1lc1sxXQogIDAtMTogL2ktMS1hCiAgMi0zOiAvaS0xLWIK

The classic history API exposes one entry for each step. (Sort of. You can't directly introspect the entries; you can only see `history.length`, and what happens if you do `history.back()` etc.) The navigation API exposes only your frame's entries: so, for `top`, it exposes [`/t-a`, `/t-a#foo`, `/t-b`]; for `frames[0]` it exposes [`/i-0-a`, `/i-0-b`]; and for `frames[1]` it exposes [`/i-1-a`, `/i-1-b`].

This might be worth its own subsection, perhaps? With an example like this one? Dunno.

Author: > So you need something like {{domxref(name, linkText, "", "joy division oven gloves")}}

Ah ha, it works! So now I know what to do for future instances like this. thanks @wbamberg . And I love the Half-Man Half-Biscuit reference.

Author: So for the note, taking into account previous discussions, I've now changed it to 

> Note: The Navigation API only exposes history entries created in the current browsing context that have the same origin as the current page (e.g. not navigations inside embedded [<iframe>](http://localhost:5042/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe)s, or cross-origin navigations), providing an accurate list of all previous history entries just for your app. This makes traversing the history a much less fragile proposition than the older [History API](http://localhost:5042/en-US/docs/Web/API/History_API).

Does this work? I'd rather not talk about frames, as I fear that this might make developers think about code running just in <iframe>s or <frames>. And document is not correct either, because the document will change if a different distinct page is navigated to...

I'd also rather not expand this to a big separate section if we can avoid it, as I think it might potentially confuse things further.

Reviewer 2: This is much, much clearer to me :)

Reviewer: It's unfortunate that MDN is still referencing the outdated concept of browsing context, but maybe that's not an issue we need to solve in this PR...

Author: @domenic Ah, I wasn't aware that this was now out of date. At some point I'd love to explore what we should be saying instead.

### State

The Navigation API allows you to store state on each history entry. This is developer-defined information — it can be whatever you like. For example, you might want to store a `visitCount` property that records the number of times a view has been visited, or an object containing multiple properties related to UI state, so that state can be restored when a user returns to that view.

To get a {{domxref("NavigationHistoryEntry")}}'s state, you call its {{domxref("NavigationHistoryEntry.getState", "getState()")}} method. It is initially `undefined`, but when state information is set on the entry, it will return the previously-set state information.

Setting state is a bit more nuanced. You can't retrieve the state value and then update it directly — the copy stored on the entry will not change. Instead, you update it while performing a {{domxref("Navigation.navigate", "navigate()")}} or {{domxref("Navigation.reload", "reload()")}} — each one of these optionally takes an options object parameter, which includes a `state` property containing the new state to set on the history entry. When these navigations commit, the state change will be automatically applied.

> In some cases however, a state change will be independent from a navigation or reload — for example when a page contains an expandable/collapsible {{htmlelement("details")}} element. In this case, you might want to store the expanded/collapsed state in your history entry, so you can restore it when the user returns to the page or restarts their browser. Cases like this are handled using {{domxref("Navigation.updateCurrentEntry", "updateCurrentEntry()")}}. The {{domxref("Navigation/currententrychange_event", "currententrychange")}} will fire when the current entry change is complete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In some cases however, a state change will be independent from a navigation or reload — for example when a page contains an expandable/collapsible {{htmlelement("details")}} element. In this case, you might want to store the expanded/collapsed state in your history entry, so you can restore it when the user returns to the page or restarts their browser. Cases like this are handled using {{domxref("Navigation.updateCurrentEntry()")}}. The {{domxref("Navigation/currententrychange_event", "currententrychange")}} will fire when the current entry change is complete.
```

(I think it is helpful to show the interface this is on.)

### Limitations

> There are a few perceived limitations with the Navigation API, which may or may not be limiting depending on how your app is set up. Find out about these by reading [Modern client-side routing: the Navigation API > What's missing?](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/web-platform/navigation-api/#whats-missing)

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason not to have this on MDN?

Author: Laziness, I guess ;-) I've added in a cut down version of it.

Reviewer 2: Looks great but I added a tiny copy-edit suggestion.

## Interfaces

> - {{domxref("Navigation")}}

Reviewer 2: I think these should be listed in alphabetical order.

Author: I kind of did, but decided to put the event objects at the end in a separate alphabetical list.

Reviewer 2: It's a minor point, but I do think consistent alpha order is the best option.

Author: OK, updated in next commit

>   - : Allows control over all navigation actions for the current `window` in one central place, including initiating navigations programmatically, introspecting navigation history entries, and managing navigations as they happen.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : Allows control over all navigation actions for the current `window` in one central place, including initiating navigations programmatically, examining navigation history entries, and managing navigations as they happen.
```

(again, unless "introspecting" is important.)

- {{domxref("NavigationDestination")}}
  - : Represents the destination being navigated to in the current navigation.
- {{domxref("NavigationHistoryEntry")}}
  - : Represents a single navigation history entry.
- {{domxref("NavigationTransition")}}
  - : Represents an ongoing navigation.
- {{domxref("NavigationCurrentEntryChangeEvent")}}
  - : Event object for the {{domxref("Navigation/currententrychange_event", "currententrychange")}} event, which fires when the {{domxref("Navigation.currentEntry")}} has changed. It provides access to the navigation type, and the previous history entry that was navigated from.
- {{domxref("NavigateEvent")}}

>   - : Event object for the {{domxref("Navigation/navigate_event", "navigate")}} event, which fires when [any type of navigation](https://github.com/WICG/navigation-api#appendix-types-of-navigations) is initiated. It provides access to information about that navigation, and most notably the {{domxref("NavigateEvent.intercept", "intercept()")}}, which allows you to control what happens when the navigation is initiated.

Reviewer 2: Again it would be great to have "any type of navigation" documented on MDN.

Author: I would hesitate to do this for now, as that section is quite long and has some complex details in it, and I don't think it'd make sense to maintain it in two places. 

@domenic , is this something you'd like to see on MDN, or would you prefer to keep it in the explainer for now?

Reviewer: Sorry, I just found this comment. As I expressed in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/21960#discussion_r1024662993, I think keeping the spec as the main source of truth here would be better.

> ## Extensions to the `Window` interface

Reviewer 2: FWIW the template wants to call this heading "Extensions to other interfaces" (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types/API_landing_page_template#extensions_to_other_interfaces) which I also like because it makes headings consistent.

Author: If there's a convention to follow, then I'm fine to follow it. Updated.

Author: Lol, I think I wrote a bunch of that stuff, back in the day ;-)

```

### Handling scrolling using `scroll()`

```js
navigation.addEventListener('navigate', event => {
  if (shouldNotIntercept(event)) return;
  const url = new URL(event.destination.url);

  if (url.pathname.startsWith('/articles/')) {
    event.intercept({
      async handler() {
        const articleContent = await getArticleContent(url.pathname);
        renderArticlePage(articleContent);
        event.scroll();

        const secondaryContent = await getSecondaryContent(url.pathname);
        addSecondaryContent(secondaryContent);
      },
    });
  }
});
```

### Traversing to a specific history entry

```js
// On JS startup, get the key of the first loaded page
// so the user can always go back there.
const {key} = navigation.currentEntry;
backToHomeButton.onclick = () => navigation.traverseTo(key);

// Navigate away, but the button will always work.
await navigation.navigate('/another_url').finished;
```

### Updating state

```js
navigation.navigate(url, {state: newState});
```

Or

```js
navigation.reload({state: newState});
```

Or if the state is independent from a navigation or reload:

```js
navigation.updateCurrentEntry({state: newState});
```

## Specifications

> {{Specifications}}

Reviewer 2: There's only one spec so it's unfortunate that we have two spec entries here. I guess that's because we have 2 BCD queries. We are in a bit of a mess wrt BCD and spec URLs, especially regarding API overview pages. But maybe it would be better to use a spec-url front matter key? Although tbh I'm not sure if that will work to override the BCD ones, or if you will just end up with three of them...

Author: I don't know what you mean by "spec-url front matter key".

I could just include a single browser compact entry, as it would still provide an idea.

Reviewer 2: You can include an item in the front matter YAML for the page like: https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/737906473648cfdc3622a7efb4414949ec2ff7fc/files/en-us/web/css/display-inside/index.md?plain=1#L12

...I think that will then be used for the specifications section instead of BCD (?). I hope so anyway.

> I could just include a single browser compact entry, as it would still provide an idea.

If the `spec-urls` thing works as expected it would be better, because the BCD entry will presumably link to a fragment inside the spec, while in an overview page we really want to just link to the spec AFAICT.

Author: I've tried it, and the result is that we end up with three spec URLs listed rather than two. I could see this totally making sense if the `spec-urls` override the URLs taken from the `browser-compat` entries, but it is additive.

I'll leave my content as-is, for now.

Reviewer 2: Fair enough. I wish this stuff worked better.

Setting state is a bit more nuanced. You can't retrieve the state value and then update it directly — the copy stored on the entry will not change. Instead, you update it while performing a {{domxref("Navigation.navigate", "navigate()")}} or {{domxref("Navigation.reload", "reload()")}} — each one of these optionally takes an options object parameter, which includes a `state` property containing the new state to set on the history entry. When these navigations commit, the state change will be automatically applied.

In some cases however, a state change will be independent from a navigation or reload — for example when a page contains an expandable/collapsible {{htmlelement("details")}} element. In this case, you might want to store the expanded/collapsed state in your history entry, so you can restore it when the user returns to the page or restarts their browser. Cases like this are handled using {{domxref("Navigation.updateCurrentEntry()")}}. The {{domxref("Navigation/currententrychange_event", "currententrychange")}} will fire when the current entry change is complete.

### Limitations

There are a few perceived limitations with the Navigation API:

> 1. The current specification doesn't trigger {{domxref("Navigation.navigate_event", "navigate")}} on a page's first load. This might be fine for sites that use Server Side Rendering (SSR)—your server could return the correct initial state, which is the fastest way to get content to your users. But sites that leverage client-side code to create their pages may need an additional function to initialize the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The current specification doesn't trigger a {{domxref("Navigation.navigate_event", "navigate")}} event on a page's first load. This might be fine for sites that use Server Side Rendering (SSR)—your server could return the correct initial state, which is the fastest way to get content to your users. But sites that leverage client-side code to create their pages may need an additional function to initialize the page.
```

(because with "trigger `navigate`" it's not super obvious this is an event (`navigate` is used a lot in this API)).

Author: Yup, good call. Updated!
